# Classification of Herbal Flowers using Transfer Learning and Vision Transformer Models

Flowers are reproductive structures in plants that function in the pollination and fertilization process. Some types of flowers have similarities in shape and color, even though they come from different species. Therefore, the manual classification process becomes difficult, while each flower has different medical benefits. Therefore, this study proposes a combination of the Transfer Learning and Vision Transformer (TLMViT) model as a deep feature extraction, and Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) for herbal flower classification. This study includes six stages: (1) data acquisition, (2) image resizing, (3) feature extraction using Transfer Learning and Vision Transformer, (4) data sharing, (5) classification using MLP, and (6) model evaluation. This dataset consists of 4,100 images covering five types of herbal flowers, namely Black-Eyed Susan, Calendula, Common Daisy, Coreopsis, and Sunflower. The results show the highest accuracy of 78.29% with a loss of 0.6162 obtained from a 90:10 data split, a learning rate of 0.0001, a batch size of 64, and a 3-layer MLP architecture. The model performance evaluation shows that the average precision, recall, and f1-score metrics obtained are 78%. The best prediction of the model occurs in the Common Daisy class at 87% and Black Eyed Susan at 84%. The results of this study indicate that the model is quite good at classifying herbal flowers, especially those with visual similarities, by utilizing deep feature extraction.

This study uses three different types of data, namely secondary data obtained from the Kaggle website, primary data obtained through direct image capture, and mixed data which is a combination of secondary data and primary data.

Secondary data can be accessed through the Kaggle website, here is the link:
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/zahraaghapour/flowers-images
